# Scripts Documentation

## 1) Identification_Interfaces.R
**Input**:
- two **PDB files** 
- a **threshold value** that defines the minimum distance for considering a full-atom interaction. 

**Output:** 
It generates, in the `/Files/` folder, two files containing tables that summarize the interface. 

**Notes:** 
It can also be used independently from a design protocol, provided that the following regions of interest on the two proteins are known: 
- **Target region**: the region that does not mutate, against which the optimization is performed. 
- **Mutable region**: the set of residues subject to mutation and complementarity optimization toward the target region. 

---

## 2) Initial_descriptor_calculation.R
This script calculates the **initial descriptors** required to start the Monte Carlo optimization. 

**Input:** 
- Two PDB files (the fixed one and the one to be mutated).
- The two interface files generated by script **(1)** (or alternatively, interface files constructed otherwise but in the same format). 
**Notes**
The interface file must correspond to the PDB files. E.g., `A.pdb`, `B.pdb`, `A_interf.csv`, `B_interf.csv`
---

## 3) Montecarlo_Optimization.R
This script performs the **actual optimization**. 

**Parameters:** 
Defined in the first lines of the script (e.g., number of steps, cost function weights, temperatures). 

**Input:** 
- The PDB to be mutated. 
- The interface file of the mutated protein defined in **(1)**. 
- The interface file of the fixed PDB (generated in **(2)**). 
- The file with the **Zernike coefficients** of the fixed PDB (generated in **(2)**). 
- The **PQR file** obtained from the fixed PDB (generated in **(2)**). 
- The file `initial_descriptors.csv` (generated in **(2)**). 

**Output:** 
At each step:

- A new sequence is generated by performing a single point mutation (i.e., one residue in the sequence is randomly changed) and stored in the dedicated subfolder in `/Files/`;
- A new PDB structure is predicted via Scwrl4 and stored in the dedicated folder in `/Files/`;
- New descriptors (Zernike distances, Electrostatics - PQR-, hydropathy) are calculated and the respective files are stored in dedicated subfolders inside `/Files/`;
- A new row in the "MonteCarlo_record.csv" is added with all the data coming from the procedure and keeping track of the outcomes of each move.
---
# Prerequisites

- R;
- Python 3;
- Scwrl4 (for protein structure prediction);
- dms (for molecular surface calculation);
- pdb2pqr (for charge evaluation).














